content: Add some civilian hails. (#5755)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/human/hails.txt

		"Why is it difficult to navigate through Dubhe? Because there's a thick Haze!"
		"Why do engineers go to Diphda? Because they like to Tinker!"
		"What is a robot's least favorite planet? Rust!"
		"What do you call a spaceship with no engines? A groundship!"

> 		"Don't trust orbital defenses. They are always up to something."

Author: You're right, ES doesn't really have any orbital defenses in place. I'll change it to "stairs" (which is the word used in the original joke).

> 		"Don't trust orbital defenses. They are always up to something."

Author: ```suggestion
		"Don't trust stairs. They are always up to something."
```

> 		"How many Hestians does it take to change a lightbulb? Four! An electrician does the work, and the buttler, manager and housekeeper supervise."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		"How many Hestians does it take to change a lightbulb? Four! An electrician does the work, and the butler, manager and housekeeper supervise."
```

		"How many Hestians does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, they don't use such old technology there!"
		"How many Hestians does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, it's all out-sourced to off-worlders."

> 		"How many Hestians does it take to change a lightbulb? One, they are very educated and capable people."

Reviewer 2: We could conceivably change these to list more than just Hestians if we wanted to.
```
		"How many ${demonym} does it take..."
		...

phrase "demonym"
	word
		"Hestian"
		"Earthling"
		"Venusian"
		"Martian"
		"New Bostonian"
		...
```

Author: I think it's nicer to create them specifically per planet (based a bit on the planets lore).

Author: I just added your suggestions and some more.

		"do secret deals with pirates."
		"are aiding the Alphas."
		"are secretly taking out Alpha enclaves."

> 		"got the secret to antigravity repulsors from teddybears with antique guns."

Reviewer 3: I feel like this one is a little bit too silly. :) Conspiracy theories and conspiracy theorists aren't funny; they're dangerous.

Reviewer 4: I think this is not a conspiracy theory, but a subtle nod to Star Wars - remember Ewoks on Endor? They used bows, guns and some sort of a float thingy...

Author: It actually was a subtle nod to "The Road Not Taken (short story)" by Harry Turtledove.
But I'm okay with removing this.

Author: Removed.

		", but I still had to take a big loan to buy my first ship."
		", but it was my grandma's inheritance that allowed me to buy this ship."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Don't be too picky about the jobs you take. It is better to"
	word
		" "
	word

> 		" ship shit, than having a shitty ship."

Reviewer 5: I must admit that I don't like this one. It is alliterative, and definitely flows off the tongue. I just don't like the language. While it should be admittedly rare to have it come up, I still wouldn't want kids playing a game with this language.

```suggestion
```

Author: Good feedback. Thanks!

		"you have cargo in your ship? I have ships in my cargo."
		"you have fighters in your bays? We have bays in our fighters."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Somebody"
		"Some nut"
	word
		" "
	word
		"put"
		"placed"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a blue phonebooth"
		"a silver car"
	word
		" "
	word
		"on my bridge"
		"in my armoury"
		"in my cargohold"
	word
		" and "
	word
		"claimed to be"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a time traveller"
		"from another time"
	word
		", and suddenly they disappeared."
		", but the only travel he did was to a mental institution."
		". I still don't know how she got into my spaceship."
		". The thing looked bigger on the inside than on the outside."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"I bought "
	word
		"a power generator"
		"explosives"
		"my new thrusters"
		"some toothpaste"
	word
		" "
	word
		"from"
	word
		" "
	word
		"the ACME company"
		"the Astronomical Conglomeration of Manufacturing Entities"
	word
		", a company many times smaller than the Syndicate."
		", a minor company but with much better service than the Syndicate."
		", a pretty insignificant company located just on one planet."

> 		" but next time I'll buy from the Syndicate again."

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
		", but next time, I'll buy from the Syndicate again."
```
OR
```suggestion
		", but next time I'll buy from the Syndicate again."
```
`next time, I'll buy from the Syndicate again` is an independent clause, so it needs a comma. `next time` is an introductory phrase and _technically_ needs a comma, but this is a spot it could slide - you could leave it out if you think it'd sound better without it. Your choice.

		", but I still had to take a big loan to buy my first ship."
		", but it was my grandma's inheritance that allowed me to buy this ship."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Don't be too picky about the jobs you take. It's better to"
	word
		" "
	word
		"ship crooks, than having a crooked ship."
		"ship slugs, than having a sluggish ship."

> 		"ship bad bands, than having your ship badly banned."

Reviewer: I'm not really sure what `badly banned` means here. If the captain doesn't have enough money, the ship gets banned?

Author: Ships don't get banned for having not enough money (might be a nice addition though; some rich planets that only allow the player to land if he/she has a sufficiently high net-worth), but I can think of a number of reasons why a captain would send a hail like this:
- Merchants are typically welcome everywhere, while military/army members could be "banned" from hostile planets. (So this hail having a meaning on that it is better to be a merchant shipping bad bands, than to be in the military and be unable to go to some places.)
- Bands and sports/competition games are quite popular in-lore. If a captain would seriously offend some band, then this could have a reputation impact and might make the captain unwelcome in some places.
- The captain might just be sending out nonsense that sounds cool.

		"be working hard at shipping, than having your ship hardly working."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Ey Comrade,"
	word
		" "
	word
		"your ship has loaded on a planet? I have loaded a planet onto my ship."
		"you have cargo in your ship? I have ships in my cargo."
		"you have fighters in your bays? We have bays in our fighters."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Somebody"
		"Some nut"
	word
		" "
	word
		"put"
		"placed"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a blue phonebooth"
		"a silver car"
	word
		" "
	word
		"on my bridge"
		"in my armoury"
		"in my cargohold"
	word
		" and "
	word
		"claimed to be"
		"told my crew to be"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a time traveller"
		"from another time"

> 	word
> 		", "
> 	word
> 		"and suddenly it disappeared."
> 		"but the only travel he did was to a mental institution."
> 		"I still don't know how she got into my spaceship."
> 		"the thing looked bigger on the inside than on the outside."
> 		"and some weirdos were flying around it on hoverboards."

Reviewer: Line 1768 can result in hails like `Some nut put a silver car in my armoury and claimed to be a time traveller, I still don't know how she got into my spaceship.` which would be a run-on sentence. In addition, line 1769 would also create a run-on sentence, ex: `Some nut put a silver car in my armoury and claimed to be a time traveller, the thing looked bigger on the inside than on the outside`. 
```suggestion
	word
		", and suddenly it disappeared."
		", but the only travel he did was to a mental institution."
		". I still don't know how she got into my spaceship."
		". The thing looked bigger on the inside than on the outside."
		", and some weirdos were flying around it on hoverboards."
```
This would result in the sentence `Some nut put a silver car in my armoury and claimed to be a time traveller. I still don't know how she got into my spaceship.` or `Some nut put a silver car in my armoury and claimed to be a time traveller. The thing looked bigger on the inside than on the outside` which is grammatically correct.
Also, the line `and some weirdos were flying around it on hoverboards.` doesn't really make sense to me. Were there multiple people who got into the captain's ship? Where did they go? Apologies if this is a reference to something that I don't get.

Author: It would indeed be strange if a captain would allow some weirdos on hoverboards to just stay hanging around on his ship. I removed that option.

Author: I also applied your other review-comments in a separate commit.

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"I bought "
	word
		"a power generator"
		"explosives"
		"my new thrusters"
		"some toothpaste"
	word
		" "
	word
		"from"
	word
		" "
	word
		"the ACME company"
		"the Astronomical Conglomeration of Manufacturing Entities"
	word
		", a company many times smaller than the Syndicate."
		", a minor company but with much better service than the Syndicate."
		", a pretty insignificant company located just on one planet."

> 		" but next time I buy from the much larger Syndicate again."

Reviewer: I feel like this should be in future tense. Also, I feel like 'the much larger' is unnecessary. It's already almost immediately obvious to a new player that the Syndicate is huge. 
```suggestion
		" but next time I'll buy from the Syndicate again."
```

		", but I still had to take a big loan to buy my first ship."
		", but it was my grandma's inheritance that allowed me to buy this ship."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Don't be too picky about the jobs you take. It's better to"
	word
		" "
	word

> 		" ship crooks, than having a crooked ship."

Reviewer 7: The leading space in this last section is unnecessary given that the previous section adds a space already.

Author: Thanks, I removed the unnecessary spaces.

> 		" ship crooks, than having a crooked ship."
> 		" ship slugs, than having a sluggish ship."
> 		" ship bad bands, than having your ship badly banned."
> 		" be working hard at shipping, than having your ship hardly working."

Author: ```suggestion
		"ship crooks, than having a crooked ship."
		"ship slugs, than having a sluggish ship."
		"ship bad bands, than having your ship badly banned."
		"be working hard at shipping, than having your ship hardly working."
```

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Ey Comrade,"
	word
		" "
	word
		"your ship has loaded on a planet? I have loaded a planet onto my ship."
		"you have cargo in your ship? I have ships in my cargo."
		"you have fighters in your bays? We have bays in our fighters."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Somebody"
		"Some nut"
	word
		" "
	word
		"put"
		"placed"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a blue phonebooth"
		"a silver car"
	word
		" "
	word
		"on my bridge"
		"in my armoury"
		"in my cargohold"
	word
		" and "
	word
		"claimed to be"
		"told my crew to be"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a time traveller"
		"from another time"
	word
		", "
	word
		"and suddenly it disappeared."
		"but the only travel he did was to a mental institution."
		"I still don't know how she got into my spaceship."
		"the thing looked bigger on the inside than on the outside."
		"and some weirdos were flying around it on hoverboards."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"I bought "
	word
		"a power generator"
		"explosives"
		"my new thrusters"
		"some toothpaste"
	word
		" "
	word
		"from"
	word
		" "
	word
		"the ACME company"
		"the Astronomical Conglomeration of Manufacturing Entities"

> 	word
> 		" "

Author: ```suggestion
```

	word

> 		", a company many times smaller than the Syndicate."

Reviewer 7: Given that several lines in this section start with a comma, the previous section (which just adds a space) should probably be removed.

Author: Thanks! I removed the section.

		", but I still had to take a big loan to buy my first ship."
		", but it was my grandma's inheritance that allowed me to buy this ship."

> phrase "friendly civilian"

Reviewer 3: Same. I think most of these combinations are kind of silly and mostly nonsensical, sorry.

Author: I removed all but 4 of them. Let me know if the last 4 also need to go.

Reviewer 3: The remaining ones seem ok to me. :)

	word

> 		"Don't be too picky about the jobs you take. It is better to"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		"Don't be too picky about the jobs you take. It's better to"
```

	word
		" "
	word
		" ship crooks, than having a crooked ship."
		" ship shells, than having your ship shelled."
		" ship slugs, than having a sluggish ship."
		" ship junk, than having a junk ship."

> 		" ship buckles, than having your ship bucle."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		" ship buckles, than having your ship buckle."
```

		" ship squash, than having your ship squashed."
		" ship bad bands, than having your ship badly banned."
		" ship shots, than having your ship shot."
		" be working hard at shipping, than having your ship hardly working."
		" fly to the ruins, than flying in ruins."
		" be fired, than having your ship on fire."
		" transport mines, than handling transport in the mines."

> phrase "friendly civilian"

Reviewer 3: Is this captain supposed to seem drunk? Same complaint.

Author: I was trying to create this type of joke: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_Soviet_Russia, but maybe I didn't do it correctly.

Reviewer 3: If I read them with a stereotypical Russian accent, it makes a bit more sense, but of course there's no way to communicate this to the player. :) I just feel like these are a bit too meme-y. But maybe I'm just being an old fart. :)

Author: They are a bit meme-y, but it's just 4 possible hails out of the large set of civilian hails we have.

		", but I still had to take a big loan to buy my first ship."
		", but it was my grandma's inheritance that allowed me to buy this ship."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Don't be too picky about the jobs you take. It's better to"
	word
		" "
	word
		"ship crooks, than have a crooked ship."
		"ship slugs, than have a sluggish ship."
		"ship bad bands, than have your ship badly banned."
		"be working hard at shipping, than have your ship hardly working."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Ey Comrade,"
	word
		" "
	word
		"your ship has loaded on a planet? I have loaded a planet onto my ship."
		"you have cargo in your ship? I have ships in my cargo."
		"you have fighters in your bays? We have bays in our fighters."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"Somebody"
		"Some nut"
	word
		" "
	word
		"put"
		"placed"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a blue phonebooth"
		"a silver car"
	word
		" "
	word
		"on my bridge"
		"in my armory"
		"in my cargo hold"
	word
		" and "
	word
		"claimed to be"
	word
		" "
	word

> 		"a time traveller"

Reviewer 2: We use traveler with one L. There are a few other instances of this in the news messages.

		"from another time"
	word
		", and suddenly they disappeared."
		", but the only travel he did was to a mental institution."
		". I still don't know how she got into my spaceship."
		". The thing looked bigger on the inside than on the outside."

phrase "friendly civilian"
	word
		"I bought "
	word
		"a power generator"
		"explosives"
		"my new thrusters"
		"some toothpaste"
	word
		" "
	word
		"from"
	word
		" "
	word
		"the ACME company"
		"the Astronomical Conglomeration of Manufacturing Entities"
	word
		", a company many times smaller than the Syndicate."

> 		", a minor company but with much better service than the Syndicate."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		", a minor company, but with much better service than the Syndicate."
```

> 		", a pretty insignificant company located just on one planet."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		", a pretty insignificant company located on just one planet."
```

		"in the Republic"
	word
		"!"
		

> phrase "friendly navy"

Reviewer 3: I feel like this whole thing might work better as just one or two static phrases. A lot of the combinations feel a bit awkward to me.

Author: I think the issue was mostly with the 2 removed entries and with the second part. I have changed them a bit, hope they are better now.

	word
		"Dying"
		"Getting wounded"
		"Taking a hit"
	word
		" "
	word
		"during"
		"in"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a firefight"
		"battle"
		"space battle"
		"war"
	word
		" is "
	word
		"heroic"
		"honourable"
		"respectable"
		"valuable"

> 		"well rewarded"

Reviewer 3: These last two seem out of place to me.

"Taking a hit during a war is valuable"
"Dying in war is well-regarded"

Uh no it's not lol

Author: The last one was `well rewarded`, not `well regarded`. I removed them.

		"in the Republic"
	word
		"!"
		
phrase "friendly navy"
	word
		"Dying"
		"Getting wounded"
		"Taking a hit"
	word
		" "
	word
		"during"
		"in"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a firefight"
		"battle"
		"space battle"
		"war"
	word
		" is "
	word
		"heroic"
		"honourable"
		"respectable"
	word
		". "
	word
		"Destroying"
		"Killing"
		"Imprisoning"
		"Eliminating"
		"Expelling"
		"Fending off"
		"Driving back"
	word
		" "

> 	word

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
	word
		"pirates"
		"criminals"
```

		"our adversaries"
		"our enemies"
		"terrorists"
	word
		" is "

> 	word

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
	word
		"preferable"
```

		"in the Republic"
	word
		"!"
		

> phrase "friendly navy"

Reviewer 6: I think this phrase might need some changing. Two things:
1. It doesn't really feel like the second sentence logically follows the first. The person is talking about how sacrificing life and limb is honorable, then switches to strategy against hostiles. Those two things are marginally related, sure, but there's not really a transition from one to the other. I'd suggest separating these two sentences into two separate `phrase`s.
2. I'm not sure if it's really that important, but the potential combinations of `word`s mean that you can hear somewhat contradictory ideas. One officer might tell you that capturing pirates is preferable, and another might tell you killing them is. Maybe it could be edited to make it clear that these are opinions of the individual officers rather than their orders?

Author: Those texts were inspired by a quote from general George S. Patton; "The object of war is not to die for your country but to make the other bastard die for his." It seems to sound more related in Pattons quote than in the texts here.

Killing pirates and capturing pirates are both about making sure that they no longer pose a thread, so the generic idea behind such orders doesn't sound very contradictionary. But I can make it sound like an opinion (by adding texts like "but in my opinion", "but if you ask me" to connect the phrases).

Author: I updated the text a bit and I hope I made the connection also more explicit. Please let me know if it works.

Reviewer 6: Yeah, I think the transition works much better now!

		"in the Republic"
	word
		"!"
		
phrase "friendly navy"
	word
		"Dying"
		"Getting wounded"
		"Taking a hit"
	word
		" "
	word
		"during"
		"in"
	word
		" "
	word
		"a firefight"
		"battle"
		"space battle"
		"war"
	word
		" is "
	word
		"heroic"
		"honourable"
		"respectable"
	word

> 		". "

Author: Yes, I think you're right. I changed it to a comma (and changed the lines after it to start with a non-capital characer)

> 		". "
> 	word
> 		"When it helps your brothers and sisters in arms to"
> 		"If such action helps to"
> 		"When on duty to"
> 		"When it helps to"
> 		"But if you ask me; our real job is to"
> 		"Our goal however is to"
> 		"But our focus should be to"
> 		"But only if it helps the Navy to"
> 		"But my commander really prefers me to"
> 		"But it seems more efficient if we instead"
> 		"But the world actually expects us to"

Author: ```suggestion
		", "
	word
		"when it helps your brothers and sisters in arms to"
		"if such action helps to"
		"when on duty to"
		"when it helps to"
		"but if you ask me; our real job is to"
		"our goal however is to"
		"but our focus should be to"
		"but only if it helps the Navy to"
		"but my commander really prefers me to"
		"but it seems more efficient if we instead"
		"but the world actually expects us to"
```

		"vassal"
		"whey-face"
		"wagtail"
		
phrase "hostile disabled pirate"
	word
		"Don't hurt me! Please!"

> 		"Waaaaaa mommy!"

Reviewer: I think there should be some punctuation here.
```suggestion
		"Waaaaaa! Mommy!"
```
